agent_event_publisher_http/README.md, before:

# agent_event_publisher_http

A simple HTTP event publisher for the SSI Agent.

To make use of this publisher you need to configure it by creating a `config.yaml` file in this same directory. For each
aggregate you want to publish events for, you need to set the following properties:

- The `target_url` is the URL to which the events will be published.
- The `target_events` is a list of events that will be published to the `target_url`.

Example `config.yaml`:

```yaml
target_url: &target_url "https://my-domain.example.org/ssi-event-subscriber"

connection: {
  target_url: *target_url,
  target_events: [
    SIOPv2AuthorizationResponseVerified
  ]
}
```

### Available events

#### `credential`

```
UnsignedCredentialCreated
SignedCredentialCreated
CredentialSigned
```

#### `offer`

```
CredentialOfferCreated
CredentialAdded
FormUrlEncodedCredentialOfferCreated
TokenResponseCreated
CredentialRequestVerified
CredentialResponseCreated
```

#### `server_config`

```
ServerMetadataLoaded
CredentialConfigurationAdded
```

#### `authorization_request`

```
AuthorizationRequestCreated
FormUrlEncodedAuthorizationRequestCreated
AuthorizationRequestObjectSigned
```

#### `connection`

```
SIOPv2AuthorizationResponseVerified
OID4VPAuthorizationResponseVerified
```

Commit message:

refactor: application configuration (#94)
* refactor: undo unnecessary changes

* docs: list all config values

* refactor: rename config file

* refactor: remove example files from docker image

* refactor: merge config files

* refactor: update .dockerignore to include all Dockerfiles and .env files

* WIP: migrate from config macro to config function

* refactor: configs for `log_format` and `event_store`

* refactor: remove unused macros calls

* refactor: migrate `url` config

* refactor: `secret_manager` config

* refactor: `credential_configurations` config

* refactor: rename `DidMethodOptions`, add config for `signing_algorithms_supported`

* refactor: determine default DID method

* refactor: remove comments, load env variables

* WIP: refactor `event_publishers` config

* refactor: remove `metadata`

* refactor: remove `config!` macro

* refactor: rename `config_2` to `config`

* chore: change example logo, disable `event_publisher`, respect `default_did_method`

* chore: resolve clippy issues

* refactor: remove `set_metadata_configuration`

* refactor: remove `TEST_METADATA`

* WIP

* test: fix tests

* ci: update docker-compose

* refactor: example config

* fix: replace `localhost` with container name

* refactor: clean up code

* chore: fix unused import

* chore: remove unused deployment scripts

* refactor: read `connection_string` inside postgres module

* refactor: rename env prefix to `UNICORE`

* refactor: read from `config.yaml`

* docs: update changelog

---------

Co-authored-by: Nander Stabel <nander.stabel@impierce.com>

agent_event_publisher_http/README.md, after:

# agent_event_publisher_http

A simple HTTP event publisher for the SSI Agent.

To make use of this publisher you need to configure it by adding the `http` object to your configuration file.

- The `target_url` is the URL to which the events will be published.
- The `target_events` is a list of events that will be published to the `target_url`.

Example:

```yaml
event_publishers:
  http:
    enabled: false
    target_url: "https://my-domain.example.org/event-subscriber"
    events:
      server_config: []
      credential: [UnsignedCredentialCreated, CredentialSigned]
```

### Available events

#### `credential`

```
UnsignedCredentialCreated
SignedCredentialCreated
CredentialSigned
```

#### `offer`

```
CredentialOfferCreated
CredentialsAdded
FormUrlEncodedCredentialOfferCreated
TokenResponseCreated
CredentialRequestVerified
CredentialResponseCreated
```

#### `server_config`

```
ServerMetadataLoaded
CredentialConfigurationAdded
```

#### `authorization_request`

```
AuthorizationRequestCreated
FormUrlEncodedAuthorizationRequestCreated
AuthorizationRequestObjectSigned
```

#### `connection`

```
SIOPv2AuthorizationResponseVerified
OID4VPAuthorizationResponseVerified
```
